In its most general sense, the term "world" refers to the totality of entities, to the whole of reality or to everything that is.
 The nature of the world has been conceptualized differently in different fields. 
 Some conceptions see the world as unique while others talk of a "plurality of worlds". 
 Some treat the world as one simple object while others analyze the world as a complex made up of many parts. 
 In scientific cosmology the world or universe is commonly defined as "the totality of all space and time; all that is, has been, and will be". 
 Theories of modality, on the other hand, talk of possible worlds as complete and consistent ways how things could have been. 
 Phenomenology, starting from the horizon of co-given objects present in the periphery of every experience, defines the world as the biggest horizon or the "horizon of all horizons". 
 In philosophy of mind, the world is commonly contrasted with the mind as that which is represented by the mind. 
 Theology conceptualizes the world in relation to God, for example, as God's creation, as identical to God or as the two being interdependent. 
 In religions, there is often a tendency to downgrade the material or sensory world in favor of a spiritual world to be sought through religious practice. 
 A comprehensive representation of the world and our place in it, as is commonly found in religions, is known as a worldview. 
 Cosmogony is the field that studies the origin or creation of the world while eschatology refers to the science or doctrine of the last things or of the end of the world.

In various contexts, the term "world" takes a more restricted meaning associated, for example, with the Earth and all life on it, with humanity as a whole or with an international or intercontinental scope. 
In this sense, world history refers to the history of humanity as a whole or world politics is the discipline of political science studying issues that transcend nations and continents. 
Other examples include terms such as "world religion", "world language", "world government", "world war", "world population", "world economy" or "world championship".
A broad distinction is made between general and specialized dictionaries. Specialized dictionaries include words in specialist fields, rather than a complete range of words in the language. 
Lexical items that describe concepts in specific fields are usually called terms instead of words, although there is no consensus whether lexicology and terminology are two different fields of study. 
In theory, general dictionaries are supposed[citation needed] to be semasiological, mapping word to definition, while specialized dictionaries are supposed to be onomasiological, first identifying concepts and then establishing the terms used to designate them. 
In practice, the two approaches are used for both types.[3] There are other types of dictionaries that do not fit neatly into the above distinction, for instance bilingual (translation) dictionaries, dictionaries of synonyms (thesauri), and rhyming dictionaries
The first recorded dictionaries date back to Sumerian times around 2300 BCE, in the form of bilingual dictionaries, and the oldest surviving monolingual dictionaries are Chinese dictionaries c. 3rd century BCE. 
The first purely English alphabetical dictionary was A Table Alphabeticall, written in 1604, and monolingual dictionaries in other languages also began appearing in Europe at around this time. 
The systematic study of dictionaries as objects of scientific interest arose as a 20th-century enterprise, called lexicography, and largely initiated by Ladislav Zgusta.
The birth of the new discipline was not without controversy, with the practical dictionary-makers being sometimes accused by others of having an "astonishing" lack of method and critical-self reflection.